---
layout: post
title: "How Will The Robotics Revolution Influence Employment?"
author: Shun-Lung Chang
---

<p class="message">
  This essay represents my viewpoint on whether advances in robotic will displace more jobs than they create. 
</p>

<!--more-->

In March 2016 AlphaGo, a program developed by Google to play Go, beat a South Korean master Lee Sedol in a five-game match. Although AlphaGo’s 4-1 victory was a historic stride for researchers investigating artificial intelligence (AI hereafter), there was a mounting concern as to whether the advances in AI and robotics would sweep humans out of the economy. As a matter of fact, pessimists have contended that AI and robotics would render many jobless. As noted in Cannon (2015), robots could automate every work that can be automated. Robots have replaced hardware store clerks, and IBM Watson is substituting researchers through parsing every written study. However, people who hold this pessimistic view fail to take into account several facts that advances in robotics would redefine and create jobs. Also, they would free people from day-to-day drudgery and enable people to allocate their time and energy more effectively.

Certainly, displacement of workers from automation seems inevitable. As shown in Frey & Osborne (2013), 47 percent of total employment in US would be potentially taken by automation in a decade or two. But just as technological progress in other areas did, advances in robotics would redefine our notion of work, and give rise to new types of work in the future. Namely, robots’ ascendancy would offer a window of opportunity for humans to revisit the notion of work and to explore new possibility of work. History has witnessed that new technology generally led to a new wave of jobs, given that people plays a vital role in maintaining advanced technology tools (Cerf, 2015; Kende, 2015). Therefore, the integration of robots into our workplace and daily lives would increase the demand of well-trained robotic technicians. Moreover, Hendler (2015) argued that humans would adapt to new technologies by searching new forms of employment, and hence new kinds of jobs that we cannot imagine currently would be spurred into existence, just as the advent of the computer has created many computer-related jobs, such as software programmers. To put it briefly, through automation technology, new jobs would emerge and offset the decrease of traditional jobs, and might increase the entire number of job opportunities.

Furthermore, with technological progress in robotics, humans could develop new approaches to tackle their work more efficiently by an adroit adoption of robots in the workplace. To be sure, due to a cognitive mechanism referred as the “uncanny valley” (Mori, 1970), humans might have an innate uneasiness when working with robots, especially human-like ones. Nevertheless, the collaboration with robots could extricate humans from physically difficult and tedious jobs, such as lifting heavy objects and crunching numbers (Rus, 2015). Consequently, automation would allow people to focus their energy and resources on tasks that require a higher level of cognitive processing capacity. On the other hand, people could solicit assistance from their intelligent digital agents that can process a deluge of information, so they could focus on making sound health promotion decisions (Kreps, 2015). Brabham (2015) also pointed out that telemedicine applications/robots could take blood pressure and draw blood, and thus the use of robots in medical filed would allow people to zoom in on delivering more complex services. As can be seen from the above-mentioned scenarios, automation would allow humans to perform their work more effectively.

While it is true that current education systems have difficulty equipping their students with skills that can take advantage of the opportunities created by robotics (Alexander, 2015; Rheingold, 2015), robotic technology would not advance so far as to cripple the job market at least in the next decade. As noted in Clark (2015), though automation would constitute a threat to low-tier workers in the service industry, the service jobs would not be truly automated within the next decade; instead, they would be delivered with higher quality with the help of robots and the same level of human involvement. Of equal importance to note is that governments would try to mitigate the impact robotic technology would have on employment, given that people could revolt if they are disaffected with their job prospects, as one can see from the Occupy Wall Street movement and violent economic uprisings in Greece (Bryajolfsson and McAfee, 2015). As discussed above, robotic technology would not bring about immediate unemployment problems, and its adverse effect would be alleviated by governments.

In summary, this essay concludes that advances in robotic technology would be beneficial to the job market. They could create new kinds of jobs and improve the quality of human work. This study also shows that human labor would not be entirely replaced by robots in the near future. Future research should be directed at exploring at how to accustom workers to newly created jobs through educational systems, so workers would be able to take full advantage of the convenience robots bring to them.
